Add breaking change "Material Chip button semantics" (#4312)
flutter/website: src/docs/release/breaking-changes/material-chip-button-semantics.md

applies to [`ActionChip`][], [`ChoiceChip`][], and [`FilterChip`][] as well.

**Case 1: remove the `Semantics` widget.**

Code before migration:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
Widget myInputChip = InputChip(
  onPressed: () {},
  label: Semantics(
    button: true,
    child: Text('My Input Chip'),
  ),
);
```

Code after migration:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
Widget myInputChip = InputChip(
  onPressed: () {},
  label: Text('My Input Chip'),
);
```

**Case 2: remove `button:true` from the `Semantics` widget.**

Code before migration:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
Widget myInputChip = InputChip(
  onPressed: () {},
  label: Semantics(
    button: true,
    hint: 'Example Hint',
    child: Text('My Input Chip'),
  ),
);
```

Code after migration:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
Widget myInputChip = InputChip(
  onPressed: () {},
  label: Semantics(
    hint: 'Example Hint',
    child: Text('My Input Chip'),
  ),
);
```

## Timeline

Landed in version: TBD<br> In stable release: not yet

## References

{% include master-api.md %}

API documentation:
* [`ActionChip`][]
* [`Chip`][]
* [`ChoiceChip`][]
* [`FilterChip`][]
* [`InputChip`][]

> * [Material Buttons][]

Reviewer: Should this link point to {{site.material}}, like the next one does? (I was surprised that two links that looked similar didn't go to similar places.)

(If this should go to site.material but the earlier usage of [Material Buttons] shouldn't, then use a new link name for the earlier one.)

Author: Good catch! Updated it to `{{site.material}}`.

This will allow accessibility tools, search engines, and other semantic analysis software to determine the meaning of the application. For example, it will allow screen readers (such as TalkBack on Android and VoiceOver on iOS) to announce a tappable Chip as a "button", which can assist users in navigating the application. Prior to this change, users of accessibility tools may have had a subpar experience, unless application developers implemented a workaround by manually adding the missing semantics to the Chips in their applications.

## Description of change

In `package:flutter/material.dart`, the `build(...)` method of the `_RawChipState` class (used by all chips) returns the resulting built chip widget wrapped in a [Semantics](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Semantics-class.html) widget.

> This method looked akin to the following:

Author: Very good points! I've trimmed it down quite a bit, just focusing on the higher-level points developers might care about.

 I think I got confused by the phrasing in the [template doc](https://github.com/flutter/website/blob/master/src/docs/release/breaking-changes/template.md#description-of-change). It totally makes sense in hindsight, but maybe "SDK" -> "API"?

> This method looked akin to the following:

Reviewer: I think you're right about that. Would you mind creating a PR to fix that?

> This method looked akin to the following:

Author: Will do.

2. Make the chip's `enabled` semantic flag reflect whether the chip is currently tappable or not, if and only if the chip _could_ be interacted with at some point (see point 1), otherwise `enabled` is set to `null` (meaning this widget is _never_ tappable, as with the non-interactive information [Chip](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/Chip-class.html)).
    1. This change brings chips' `enabled` behavior in-line with that of other buttons.

The code above now looks akin to the following:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  Widget result = ... // Actually build the widget here.
  return Semantics(
  	button: widget.tapEnabled, // Added this line.
    container: true,
    selected: widget.selected,
    enabled: widget.tapEnabled ? canTap : null, // Changed this line.
    child: result,
  );
}
```

The `canTap` property has remained unchanged, and is defined as the following logical expression:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
bool get canTap {
  return widget.isEnabled
      && widget.tapEnabled
      && (widget.onPressed != null || widget.onSelected != null);
}
```

## Migration guide

> **Most developers likely won't need to perform any migration.** This change will only affect developers who worked around the issue of Material Chips missing `button` semantics by wrapping the widget given to the `label` field of a `Chip` with a `Semantics` widget marked as `button: true`. **In this case, the inner and outer `button` semantics will conflict, resulting in the tappable area of the button shrinking down to the size of the label after this change is introduced.** This can be fixed by deleting that `Semantics` widget and replacing it with its child, or simply removing the `button: true` property if other semantic properties still need to be applied to the label widget of the Chip.

Reviewer: Address the developer as "you". (https://developers.google.com/style/person)

    hint: 'Example Hint',
    child: Text('My Input Chip'),
  ),
);
```

## Timeline

Landed in version: TBD<br> In stable release: not yet

## References

{% include master-api.md %}

API documentation:
* [`Semantics`][]
* [`SemanticsProperties.button`][]
* [`SemanticsProperties.enabled`][]
* [`Chip`][]
* [`ActionChip`][]
* [`ChoiceChip`][]
* [`FilterChip`][]
* [`InputChip`][]

Relevant issues:
* [flutter/flutter#58010][]

Relevant PRs:
* [Tweaking Material Chip a11y semantics to match buttons][]
* [Revert "Tweaking Material Chip a11y semantics to match buttons (#60141)"][]
* [Re-land "Tweaking Material Chip a11y semantics to match buttons (#60141)"][]

[`Semantics`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Semantics-class.html
[`SemanticsProperties.button`]:
{{site.api}}/flutter/semantics/SemanticsProperties/button.html
[`SemanticsProperties.enabled`]:
{{site.api}}/flutter/semantics/SemanticsProperties/enabled.html [`Chip`]:
{{site.api}}/flutter/material/Chip-class.html [`ActionChip`]:
{{site.api}}/flutter/material/ActionChip-class.html [`ChoiceChip`]:
{{site.api}}/flutter/material/ChoiceChip-class.html [`FilterChip`]:
{{site.api}}/flutter/material/FilterChip-class.html [`InputChip`]:

> {{site.api}}/flutter/material/InputChip-class.html

Reviewer 2: I think this may have gotten mixed up by newlines

Author: Good catch, fixed now.

---
title: Material Chip button semantics
description: Interactive Material Chips are now semantically marked as buttons.
---

## Summary

Flutter now applies the semantic label of `button` to all interactive [Material
Chips][] for accessibility purposes.

## Context

Interactive Material Chips (namely [`ActionChip`][], [`ChoiceChip`][],
[`FilterChip`][], and [`InputChip`][]) are now semantically marked as being
buttons. However, the non-interactive information [`Chip`][] is not.

Marking Chips as buttons helps accessibility tools, search engines, and other
semantic analysis software understand the meaning of an app. For example, it
allows screen readers (such as TalkBack on Android and VoiceOver on iOS) to
announce a tappable Chip as a "button", which can assist users in navigating
your app. Prior to this change, users of accessibility tools may have had a
subpar experience, unless you implemented a workaround by manually adding the
missing semantics to the Chip widgets in your app.

## Description of change

> The outermost [`Semantics`][] widget which wraps all Chip classes to describe

Reviewer: When you see "which" without a comma, as a rule either insert a comma or replace it with "that". https://developers.google.com/style/commas#setting-off-other-kinds-of-clauses 

```suggestion
The outermost [`Semantics`][] widget that wraps all Chip classes to describe
```

their semantic properties has been modified.

For [`ActionChip`][], [`ChoiceChip`][], [`FilterChip`][], and [`InputChip`][]:

- The [`button`][`SemanticsProperties.button`] property is set to `true`.
- The [`enabled`][`SemanticsProperties.enabled`] property reflects whether the
  Chip is _currently_ tappable (by having a callback set).

These property changes bring interactive Chips' semantic behavior in-line with
that of other [Material Buttons][].

For the non-interactive information [`Chip`][]:

- The [`button`][`SemanticsProperties.button`] property is set to `false`.
- The [`enabled`][`SemanticsProperties.enabled`] property is set to `null`.

## Migration guide

**You might not need to perform any migration.** This change only affects you if
you worked around the issue of Material Chips missing `button` semantics by
wrapping the widget given to the `label` field of a `Chip` with a `Semantics`
widget marked as `button: true`. **In this case, the inner and outer `button`

> semantics will conflict, resulting in the tappable area of the button shrinking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
semantics conflict, resulting in the tappable area of the button shrinking
```

> down to the size of the label after this change is introduced.** This issue can
> be fixed by deleting that `Semantics` widget and replacing it with its child, or
> simply removing the `button: true` property if other semantic properties still

Reviewer: ```suggestion
down to the size of the label after this change is introduced.** Fix this issue
either by deleting that `Semantics` widget and replacing it with its child,
or by removing the `button: true` property if other semantic properties still
```
